README.md, before:

# MERN Stack - Authentication and Authorization with JSON Web Tokens

### Backend

This backend application developed in [Node JS](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [Express](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express) performs authentication and authorization according to the [OAuth](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/OAuth) standard. For this, I use Access Tokens and Refresh Tokens through the [JSON Web Tokens (JWT)](https://jwt.io/) standard.

I have created two data models in MongoDB with [mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/). One for users and one for employees. Then, through the MVC development pattern in Express, I have created a series of routes and controllers to be able to register, log in and log out users, as well as refresh their access tokens with their respective refresh tokens that are safely stored in cookies using ' httpOnly' and other important security flags. For the latter I use the [cookie-parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cookie-parser) library.

For this, I have created a route where you can create, update, delete and consult employees. These requests can only be authorized according to the permissions of each user role with which we authenticate. Therefore, before making a previously mentioned CRUD request, we will need to put its respective access token as Bearer Token in the authorization header.

In addition, this backend creates request and error logs. As well as some credentials to verify which domains are allowed for requests.

### Frontend

The client application made in [React](https://es.reactjs.org/) only handles users. You can register a user with user permissions. If you want to create users with other permissions, you must cold load it into the database. Then you can login and receive an Access Token to check the active users on the Administrator page (You will need a user with administrator permissions), as well as receive a Refresh Token that will be used in case the Access Token expires and be able to continue doing private queries using [Axios](https://axios-http.com/) and [Axios Interceptors](https://axios-http.com/docs/interceptors). I have also implemented that the login can be persistent in case you trust that device to use multiple times. In this way you can reload the page and continue making requests without having to log in again.

## 💻 Quick start

### Backend

To deploy this project, you must first install the node_modules packages. To do this, open a console with the main path of the project and run:

```bash
npm install
```

After that, make sure you have mongodb installed locally or in the cloud. Then, create an `.env` file in the main directory of the project with the following environment variables:

    PORT=<Port>
    ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET=<Generate a key>
    REFRESH_TOKEN_SECRET=<Generate a key>
    DATABASE_URI=<MongoDB Connection>

To generate a random key, I recommend running the following line in a node terminal:

```bash
require('crypto').randomBytes(64).toString('hex');
```

Finally, in the terminal with the main path execute:

```bash
npm run dev
```

I have left Thunder Client json file with some examples to make CRUD requests. You just have to have [Thunder Client](https://www.thunderclient.com/) installed and export it.

### Frontend

As in the backend you need to load the node_modules from the client folder through the `npm install` command, finally run also `npm run dev` to launch the client application.

## 📚 References

- 🔗 [MDN: CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
- 🔗 [NPM: CORS package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cors)
- 🔗 [NPM: Bcrypt package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt)
- 🔗 [How to Safely Store a Password](https://codahale.com/how-to-safely-store-a-password/)
- 🔗 [MDN: HTTP Response Status Codes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status)
- 🔗 [Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/xss/)
- 🔗 [Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf)
- 🔗 [REST Security Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/REST_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)
- 🔗 [Intro to JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/introduction)
- 🔗 [All You Need to Know About Storing JWT in the Frontend](https://dev.to/cotter/localstorage-vs-cookies-all-you-need-to-know-about-storing-jwt-tokens-securely-in-the-front-end-15id)
- 🔗 [NPM: jsonwebtoken package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken)
- 🔗 [NPM: cookie-parser package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cookie-parser)
- 🔗 [Deleting Cookies](http://expressjs.com/en/api.html#res.clearCookie)

Commit message:

Added jwt rotation system:
Some improvements are missing, such as closing the web without logging out and returning to the page where you were. This is detected as a reused refresh token.

README.md, after:

# MERN Stack - Authentication and Authorization with JSON Web Tokens

### Backend

This backend application developed in [Node JS](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [Express](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express) performs authentication and authorization according to the [OAuth](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/OAuth) standard. For this, I use Access Tokens and Refresh Tokens through the [JSON Web Tokens (JWT)](https://jwt.io/) standard.

I have created two data models in MongoDB with [mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/). One for users and one for employees. Then, through the MVC development pattern in Express, I have created a series of routes and controllers to be able to register, log in and log out users, as well as refresh their access tokens with their respective refresh tokens that are safely stored in cookies using ' httpOnly' and other important security flags. For the latter I use the [cookie-parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cookie-parser) library.

For this, I have created a route where you can create, update, delete and consult employees. These requests can only be authorized according to the permissions of each user role with which we authenticate. Therefore, before making a previously mentioned CRUD request, we will need to put its respective access token as Bearer Token in the authorization header.

In addition, this backend creates request and error logs. As well as some credentials to verify which domains are allowed for requests.

I have also developed a jwt rotation system to give it more security in the reuse of refresh tokens and so that a user can log in on multiple devices.

### Frontend

The client application made in [React](https://es.reactjs.org/) only handles users. You can register a user with user permissions. If you want to create users with other permissions, you must cold load it into the database. Then you can login and receive an Access Token to check the active users on the Administrator page (You will need a user with administrator permissions), as well as receive a Refresh Token that will be used in case the Access Token expires and be able to continue doing private queries using [Axios](https://axios-http.com/) and [Axios Interceptors](https://axios-http.com/docs/interceptors). I have also implemented that the login can be persistent in case you trust that device to use multiple times. In this way you can reload the page and continue making requests without having to log in again.

## 💻 Quick start

### Backend

To deploy this project, you must first install the node_modules packages. To do this, open a console with the main path of the project and run:

```bash
npm install
```

After that, make sure you have mongodb installed locally or in the cloud. Then, create an `.env` file in the main directory of the project with the following environment variables:

    PORT=<Port>
    ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET=<Generate a key>
    REFRESH_TOKEN_SECRET=<Generate a key>
    DATABASE_URI=<MongoDB Connection>

To generate a random key, I recommend running the following line in a node terminal:

```bash
require('crypto').randomBytes(64).toString('hex');
```

Finally, in the terminal with the main path execute:

```bash
npm run dev
```

I have left Thunder Client json file with some examples to make CRUD requests. You just have to have [Thunder Client](https://www.thunderclient.com/) installed and export it.

### Frontend

As in the backend you need to load the node_modules from the client folder through the `npm install` command, finally run also `npm run dev` to launch the client application.

## 📚 References

- 🔗 [MDN: CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
- 🔗 [NPM: CORS package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cors)
- 🔗 [NPM: Bcrypt package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt)
- 🔗 [How to Safely Store a Password](https://codahale.com/how-to-safely-store-a-password/)
- 🔗 [MDN: HTTP Response Status Codes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status)
- 🔗 [Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/xss/)
- 🔗 [Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf)
- 🔗 [REST Security Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/REST_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)
- 🔗 [Intro to JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/introduction)
- 🔗 [All You Need to Know About Storing JWT in the Frontend](https://dev.to/cotter/localstorage-vs-cookies-all-you-need-to-know-about-storing-jwt-tokens-securely-in-the-front-end-15id)
- 🔗 [NPM: jsonwebtoken package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken)
- 🔗 [NPM: cookie-parser package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cookie-parser)
- 🔗 [Deleting Cookies](http://expressjs.com/en/api.html#res.clearCookie)
